
HAREWERK / my6502
-

1. Pitch and overview
--

A simple example for running a simulation and produce binaries
for various FPGA platforms. This demo will flash the leds on some FPGA
cards by implementing a 6502 microcomputer in real hardware
together with a miniature ROM flashing some diodes (no cheating).

2. Quickstart (Simulation & target build)
--

make ghdl - Will give you a waveform dump for a run on the vintage 6502
            simulation.

It can be viewed with .vcd tools such as "gtkwave"

3. Not so quick start
--

Below here requires a LOT of preparations, see 4. & 5.

make sim - Will produce a demo binary for cxxrtl simulations


make pnr PLATFORM=ice40 - Will produce a binary for the ICE40 8k
make pnr PLATFORM=gowin9k - Produces a binary for "Little Bee 9k"
make pnr PLATFORM=gowin20k - Produces a binary for "Tang Nano 20k"

make clean should also work

4. Dependencies
--

the "make ghdl" can be done with a relatively recent
ghdl tool together with a waveform .vcd file viewer
such as "gtkwave"

5. More dependencies (a LOT)
--

The most important will probably be ghdl, yosys & nextpnr

They all need to be compiled with special options
so pre-build from a package maintainer (such as debian/apt)
probably wont work.

Provided you successfully already built all the tools
in the upper dirs of this example
(via 0_install.sh and 1_install.sh) on either a
Raspberry 4 or an x86 Ubuntu24-26 you should also be
able to produce a binary for the cxxrtl simulation
platform via the "make sim" command.
Other computers may also work but has not been tested

The toolchains will take about 3 hrs to install on a Pi
(lots and lots of compiling) and about 40 minutes on a
half decent Ubuntu-PC

All of this (except ghdl) is HIGHLY experimental!

6. Hardware supported
--

To run the images for the real world platforms you
obviously need a development card and in order to
see the diodes flash they need to be connected to
the proper pins

You also need some way to download the images, this
may vary on your platform. I have tested on the following:

ICE40 8k from Olimex (hx8k  device on ct256 capsule)
using an "Iceprogduino" also produced by Olimex.

Gowin "Litte Bee" (GW1NR-LV9QN88PC6/I5 device qn88 capsule)
Gowin Tang Nano 20k (GW2AR-LV18QN88C8/I7 device qn88 capsule)
Here the cards pop up as serial devices when connected
so these cards dont need external programmers

It should be straightforward to alter the chip settings in
the Makefile and add other targets

Most likely the images will also work on other boards with
identical chips but then the programming procedure might
differ wildly and also any diodes may be connected to other pins

These examples may FRY on your target chip if you get the wrong image
for the wrong board!

7. Some smart things to know
--

The Makefile output is all cool looking produced with AI
assistance (so what could go wrong??) but since they are
very new there is a fallback in the deprecated/ folder
of a linear script that does more or less the same things

Logs from synth and pnr tools are keyed on the target platform
and resides in the obj_dir/ catalogue This also keeps the json
files produced as interchange media between tools

The binaries are .bin (ice40) and .fs (gowin) again make sure
the image you pick is for your actual target!

If this really bites you there are some loose clues on
how to connect a wire down in the hierarchy and putting
it on a physical pin in the HOW_TO_CHECK_A_SIGNAL.txt
file.

8. Why "HAREWERK"?
--

he AI made this up itself, it though it was suitable
for the project as it painfully slowly moves towards total
world dominance. It is allegedly a portmanteau of "Hardware" and
"Werk" (meaning "factory", "work", "facaility" or some intellectual
work in german, in swedish it more sounds like "Pain")
There is also most probably some alluding on the "Kraftwerk" group

9. Are you always this boring?
--

Yes. I tried to make the AI produce some humor but it promptly
locked itself into the basement and claimed to "be working" but
I suspect it just ate a lot of icecream in there. It has done
so before.